# Go-To-Market-Strategy---SaaS
**Go To Market Strategy for a SaaS product**

**DATA DRIVEN GO-TO-MARKET STRATEGY**

**Pre – Launch Phase
Creating Awareness
Content Creation**

During the pre-launch phase it is important to create awareness of the product. So, the company should focus on writing about its product in Blogs, post on Quora and reddit and answer questions on both social media platforms where the product is an ideal fit and solves the problem the customer is asking about. Along with this the videos about the functionality of the product should be posted in the company's YouTube channel and in FB and Slack groups specifically created to understand the emotions of the customer. For this purpose, it would be ideal to choose Beta tester customers and influencers who are from the same segment under the demand and supply curve. The positioning matters a lot and even though the marginal cost for a SaaS product is almost nil because once the pricing of the product is out there, it would be very difficult to increase the price without there being a huge surge in demand. 
KPIs: Task Completion Rate – This is to ensure that the products are rolled out on the above-mentioned channels at the right time and at the right interval. 
Task Completion Rate = (Number of Completed Tasks / Total Number of Assigned Tasks) ×100
Traffic
During this phase, the company should monitor the traffic that is coming to each of its channels (Padi and unpaid) and understand what the overall sentiment towards the product is, whether it’s positive or negative and also what are the features of the product that the customer likes the best. During the prelaunch phase the company should be able to understand which 3 are the best features of its product and keep a tab on the top 5 or 6 attributes (Value proposition for the customer). In a marketing message to the customer, the standard approach would be to keep a maximum of 6 as you would lose the attention of the customer beyond that point. 
Identifying the best feature that the customer likes and curating the marketing messaging to that would be the best approach. This is one of the reasons Apple ads are so much more impactful than its counterparts who portray an array of features which leaves the customer confused. E.g.: Apple identifying the camera on its phone to be the best feature and promoting the messages that the pictures and videos taken on an iPhone are the best. 
Also identifying the best six attributes and what weight it carriers helps the company do an attribute analysis and later a conjoint analysis to understand at what price it should sell its products. 
KPIs: CSAT (Customer Satisfaction Score) score and NPS (Net promoter Score) score for the product and features. 
CSAT = (Number of Satisfied Customers / Total Number of Respondents ​) ×100
NPS = %Promoters − %Detractors
Promoters (score 9-10), Passives (score 7-8), Detractors (score 0-6)
NPS will help understand how likely a particular customer is to recommend the company’s product to others the customer knows or comes in discussion about the product with.  
Sentiment Analysis – From the comments of the customer, using natural language processing (NLP), the company should identify and classify the polarity of the text, which could be positive, neutral or negative. This can be done through data collection, text processing, feature extraction, sentiment classification and evaluation. This helps the company understand the general sentiment towards the product and how much the customer values the product and its features. 
CAC/Leads (for Paid channels) – Understanding the ratio of Customer Acquisition Cost to the number of leads (traffic to the posts) generated will help us understand how well the paid channels are working and which channels are the best ones in terms ROI value to market its products. Ideally the CAC/ Leads ratio should be at the lowest. This will also help us segregate the traffic that is happening organically compared to the ones which are coming through paid channels. 

**Launch Phase**

During the launch phase (1st month of launch), like in the pre-launch phase, the company should keep creating contents for the channels mentioned above to increase customer awareness for the product. Since the product for Pega, is a SaaS based ERP software, the company should launch in new channels such as Industry Events, LinkedIn, YouTube and Twitter, where it would come into the notice of the professional community. Here it should leverage on the fact that it has already curated the best product promotion, understood the sentiments of the working community who are going to use these products at various companies and have the marketing ads and ideas curated to appeal for the tastes of the C-suite. At this point, the product should have the least possible errors and bugs and the usability should be intuitive and user-friendly. 
KPIs: The company should continue mentoring the CSAT, NPS, sentiment, and CAC/ leads. Apart from this, the company should start monitoring the Conversion rates of each of its channels. The conversion rate can be calculated by seeing how much traffic is coming through the channels and how many of them are engaging with the product (Leads), which might be them downloading a piece of content or filling out a form or more. If the conversion rate is not there then there is no use of proceeding further down the funnel. The company should be curating and creating more innovative content to drive traffic. Ideally the company should be looking at conversion rates of 20% and above. 
After this the company should focus on the Activation rate which is when the leads get converted into opportunities. Opportunities are when a sales team engages with the potential customer, or the customer has used a demo/ trial of the product or service. The industry norm here to be followed is between 10 to 20%. 

**Post-Launch Phase**

During the post launch phase, apart from the company monitoring traffic, leads and opportunities and calculating conversion rate, and activation rate, now it should start looking at the Win rate. Win rate is when the opportunities are getting converted into revenue. It is when the customer is actually purchasing the product and the win rate should ideally be 50% or more if the opportunity is sales led (inbound lead) and it should be 7 to 10% if it is product lead. In a product led scenario, there is no human interaction, and all the sales happen through a seamless, self-service experience where the customer is able to satisfactorily judge the value of the product. 
KPIs: Since there is enough data at this stage, the company would ideally want to measure Lifetime value (LTV), Customer acquisition cost (CAC), CSAT, NPS, measure the ratio of LTV/CAC (ideally high and positive), and the customer retention rate. The attrition rate for an ERP product should ideally be very low owing to the higher switching cost involved and owing to the company’s excellent customer support.  
